Trajectory optimization using direct collocation
================================================

.. note::

    Type: Trajectory Optimization

    State/action space constraints: Yes

    Optimal: Yes

    Versatility: Swingup and stabilization

Theory
------

Direct collocation is an approach from **collocation methods** , which transforms the optimal control problem into a mathematical programming problem. The numerical solution can be achieved directly by solving the new problem using sequential quadratic programming `[1] <https://arc.aiaa.org/doi/pdf/10.2514/3.20223>`_`[2] <http://underactuated.mit.edu/trajopt.html>`_.
The formulation of the optimization problem at the collocation points is as follows:

.. math::
  :nowrap:

  \begin{align*}
          \min_{{\bf{x}}[.],{{u}}[.]} \sum_{n_0}^{N-1}&
            h_{n}l({{u}}[n])\\
          \textrm{s.t.} \quad & \dot{{\bf{x}}}(t_{c,n})=f({\bf{x}}(t_{c,n}),u(t_{c,n})), \hspace{0.2cm} \forall n \in [0,N-1] \\
            & |u| \leq u_{max}\\
            & {\bf{x}}[0] = {\bf{x}}_0\\
            & {\bf{x}}[N] = {\bf{x}}_F
  \end{align*}


* :math:`\bf{x}` = :math:`[\theta(.),\dot\theta(.)]^T`>: Angular position and velocity are the states of the system

* `u`: Input torque of the system applied by motor

* `N = 21`: Number of break points in the trajectory

* :math:`h_k = t_{k} - t_k`: Time interval between two breaking points

* :math:`l(u) = u^T R u`: Running cost

* `R = 10`: Input weight

* :math:`\dot{\bf{x}}(t_{c,n}`: `Nonlinear dynamics of the pendulum <https://github.com/dfki-ric-underactuated-lab/torque_limited_simple_pendulum/tree/master/software/python/simple_pendulum/model>`_ considered as equality constraint at collocation point

* :math`t_{c,k} = \frac{1}{2}\left(t_k t_{k1}\right)`: A collocation point at time instant :math:`k,(i.e.,{\bf{x}}[k] = {\bf{x}}(t_k))`,in which the collocation constraints depends on the decision variables :math:`{\bf{x}}[k], {\bf{x}}[k2, B1], u[k], u[k2, B1]`

* :math:`u_{max} = 10`: Maximum torque limit

* :math:`\bf{x}_0 = [\theta = 0, \dot\theta = 0]`: Initial state constraint

* :math:`\bf{x}_F = [\theta = \pi,\dot\theta = 0]`: Terminal state constraint


Minimum and a maximum spacing between sample times set to 0.05 and 0.5`s`. It assumes a **first-order hold** on the input trajectory, in which the signal is reconstructed as a piecewise linear approximation to the original sampled signal.

API
---

The direct collocation algorithm explained above can be executed by using the ``DirectCollocationCalculator`` class::

    dircal = DirectCollocationCalculator()

To parse the pendulum parameters to the calculator, do::

      dircal.init_pendulum(mass=0.5,
                           length=0.5,
                           damping=0.1,
                           gravity=9.81,
                           torque_limit=1.5)

The optimal trajectory can be computed with::

  x_trajectory, dircol, result = dircal.compute_trajectory(N=21,
                                                           max_dt=0.5,
                                                           start_state=[0.0, 0.0],
                                                           goal_state=[3.14, 0.0])

The method returns three pydrake objects containing the optimization results. The trajectory as numpy arrays can be extracted from these objects with::

    T, X, XD, U = dircal.extract_trajectory(x_trajectory, dircol, result, N=1000)

where T is the time, X the position, XD the velocity and U the control trajectory. The parameter N determines here how with how many steps the trajectories are sampled.

The phase space of the trajectory can be plotted with::

    dircal.plot_phase_space_trajectory(x_trajectory, save_to="None")

If a string with a path to a file location is parsed with 'save_to' the plot is saved there.

Dependencies
------------

The trajectory optimization using direct collocation for the pendulum swing-up is accomplished by taking advantage of `Drake toolbox [3] <https://drake.mit.edu/>`_.

References
----------

`[1] Hargraves, Charles R., and Stephen W. Paris. "Direct trajectory optimization using nonlinear programming and collocation." Journal of guidance, control, and dynamics 10.4 (1987): 338-342 <https://arc.aiaa.org/doi/pdf/10.2514/3.20223>`_

`[2] Russ Tedrake. Underactuated Robotics: Algorithms for Walking, Running, Swimming, Flying, and Manipulation (Course Notes for MIT 6.832). <http://underactuated.mit.edu/>`_

`[3] Model-Based Design and Verification for Robotics <https://drake.mit.edu/>`
